federalist 46 the influence of the state
and federal governments compared
from the new york packet tuesday january
1788 madison to the people of the state
of new york
resuming the subject of the last paper i
proceed to inquire whether the federal
government or the state governments
will have the advantage with regard to
the predilection and support of the
people
notwithstanding the different modes in
which they are appointed
we must consider both of them as
substantially dependent on the great
body of the citizens of the united
states
i assume this position here as it
respects the first reserving the proofs
for another place
the federal and state governments are in
fact but different agents and trustees
of the people
constituted with different powers and
designated for different purposes
the adversaries of the constitution seem
to have lost sight of the people
altogether in their reasonings on this
subject
and to have viewed these different
establishments not only as mutual rivals
and enemies
but as uncontrolled by any common
superior in their efforts to usurp the
authorities of each other
these gentlemen must here be reminded of
their error they must be told that the
ultimate authority wherever the
derivation may be found
resides in the people alone and that it
will not depend merely on the
comparative ambition or address of the
different governments
whether either or which of them will be
able to enlarge its sphere of
jurisdiction at the expense of the other
truth no less than decency requires that
the event in every case should be
supposed to depend on the sentiments and
sanction of their common constituents
many considerations besides those
suggested on a former occasion
seem to place it beyond doubt that the
first and most natural attachment of the
people will be to the governments of
their respective states
into the administration of these a
greater number of individuals will
expect to rise
from the gift of these a greater number
of offices and emoluments will flow
by the superintending care of these all
the more domestic and personal interests
of the people will be regulated and
provided for
with the affairs of these the people
will be more familiarly and minutely
conversant
and with the members of these will a
greater proportion of the people have
the ties of personal acquaintance and
friendship
and a family and party attachments on
the side of these therefore
the popular bias may well be expected
most strongly to incline
experience speaks the same language in
this case the federal administration
though hitherto very defective in
comparison with what may be hoped under
a better system had
during the war and particularly whilst
the independent fund of paper emissions
was in credit
and activity and importance as great as
it can well have in any future
circumstance whatever
it was engaged too in a course of
measures which had for their object the
protection of everything that was dear
and the acquisition of everything that
could be desirable to the people at
large
it was nevertheless invariably found
after the transient enthusiasm for the
early congresses was over
that the attention and detachment of the
people were turned anew to their own
particular governments
that the federal council was at no time
the idol of popular favor
and that opposition to proposed
enlargements of its powers and
importance was the side usually taken by
the men who wish to build their
political consequence on the
pre-possessions of their fellow citizens
if therefore as has been elsewhere
remarks the people should in future
become more partial to the federal than
to the state governments
the change can only result from such
manifest in irresistible proofs of a
better administration
as will overcome all their antecedent
propensities and in that case the people
aren't not surely to be precluded from
giving most of their confidence where
they may discover it to be most due
but even in that case the state
governments could have little to
apprehend
because it is only within a certain
sphere that the federal power can
in the nature of things be
advantageously administered
the remaining points on which i propose
to compare the federal and state
governments
are the disposition and the faculty they
may respectively possess
to resist and frustrate the measures of
each other it has been already proved
that the members of the federal
will be more dependent on the members of
the state government than the latter
will be on the former
it has appeared also that the
pre-possessions of the people on whom
both will depend
will be more on the side of the state
governments than of the federal
government
so far as the disposition of each
towards the other may be influenced by
these causes
the state governments must clearly have
the advantage but in a distinct and very
important point of view
the advantage will lie on the same side
the pre-possessions which the members
themselves will carry into the federal
government
will generally be favorable to the
states whilst it will rarely happen that
the members of the state governments
will carry into the public councils a
bias in favor of the general government
a local spirit will infallibly prevail
much more in the members of congress
than a national spirit will prevail in
the legislatures of the particular
states
everyone knows that a great proportion
of the errors committed by the state
legislatures
proceeds from the disposition of the
members to sacrifice the comprehensive
and permanent interest of the state to
the particular and separate views of the
counties or districts in which they
reside
and if they do not sufficiently enlarge
their policy to embrace the collective
welfare of their particular state
how can it be imagined that they will
make the aggregate prosperity of the
union and the dignity and respectability
of its governments the objects of their
affections and consultations
for the same reason that the members of
the state legislatures will be unlikely
to attach themselves sufficiently to
national objects
the members of the federal legislature
will be likely to attach themselves too
much to local objects
the states will be to the latter what
counties and towns are to the former
measures will too often be decided
according to their probable effect
not on the national prosperity and
happiness put on the prejudices
interests and pursuits of the
governments and people of the individual
states
what is the spirit that has in general
characterized the proceedings of
congress
a perusal of their journals as well as
the candid acknowledgements of such as
have had a seat in that assembly
will inform us that the members have but
too frequently displayed the character
rather of partisans of their respective
states than of impartial guardians of
common interest
that where on one occasion improper
sacrifices have been made of local
considerations to the aggrandizement of
the federal government
the great interests of the nation have
suffered on 100 from an undue attention
to the local prejudices
interests and views of the particular
states
i mean not by these reflections to
insinuate that the new federal
government will not embrace a more
enlarged plan of policy than the
existing government may have pursued
much less that its views will be as
confined as those of the state
legislatures but only that it will
partake sufficiently of the spirit of
both
to be disinclined to invade the rights
of the individual states or the
prerogatives of their governments
the motives on the part of the state
governments to augment their
prerogatives by defaultations from the
federal government
will be overruled by no reciprocal
predispositions in their members
word admitted however that the federal
government may feel an equal disposition
with the state governments to extend its
power beyond the due limits the latter
would still have the advantage in the
means of defeating such encroachments
if an act of a particular state though
unfriendly to the national government be
generally popular in that state and
should not too grossly violate the oaths
of the state officers it is executed
immediately and
of course by means on the spot and
depending on the state alone
the opposition of the federal government
or the interposition of federal officers
would but inflame the zeal of all
parties on the side of the state
and the evil could not be prevented or
repaired if at all without the
employment of means which must always be
resorted to with reluctance and
difficulty
on the other hand should an
unwarrantable measure of the federal
government be unpopular in particular
states which would seldom fail to be the
case
or even a warrantable measure be so
which may sometimes be the case
the means of opposition to it are
powerful and at hand
the disquite of the people the
repugnance and perhaps refusal to
cooperate with the officers of the union
the frowns of the executive magistracy
of the state the embarrassments created
by legislative devices which would often
be added on such occasions would oppose
in
any state difficulties not to be
despised would form in a large state
very serious impediments
and where the sentiments of several
adjoining states happen to be in unison
would present obstructions which the
federal government would hardly be
willing to encounter
but ambitious encroachments of the
federal government on the authority of
the state governments
would not excite the opposition of a
single state or of a few states only
they would be signals of general alarm
every government would espouse the
common cause
a correspondence would be opened plans
of resistance would be concerted
one spirit would animate and conduct the
whole the same combinations in short
would result from an apprehension of the
federal as was produced by the dread of
a foreign yoke
and unless the projected innovations
should be voluntarily renounced
the same appeal to a trial of force
would be made in the one case
as was made in the other but what degree
of madness could ever drive the federal
government to such an extremity
in the contest with great britain one
part of the empire was employed against
the other
the more numerous part invaded the
rights of the less numerous part
the attempt was unjust and unwise but it
was not in speculation absolutely
chimerical
but what would be the contest in the
case we are supposing
who would be the parties a few
representatives of the people would be
opposed to the people themselves
or rather one set of representatives
would be contending against 13 sets of
representatives
with the whole body of their common
constituents on the side of the latter
the only refuge left for those who
prophesy the downfall of the state
governments
is the visionary supposition that the
federal government may previously
accumulate a military force for the
projects of ambition
the reasonings contained in these papers
must have been employed to little
purpose indeed
if it could be necessary now to disprove
the reality of this danger
that the people and the states should
for a sufficient period of time
elect an uninterrupted succession of men
ready to betray both
that the traitors should throughout this
period uniformly and systematically
pursue some fixed plan for the extension
of the military establishment
that the governments and the people of
the state should silently and patiently
behold the gathering storm
and continue to supply the materials
until it should be prepared to burst on
their own heads
must appear to everyone more like the
incoherent dreams of a delirious
jealousy or the misjudged exaggerations
of a counterfeit zeal
than like the sober apprehensions of
genuine patriotism
extravagant as the supposition is let it
however be made
let a regular army fully equal to the
resources of the country be formed
and let it be entirely at the devotion
of the federal government
still it would not be going too far to
say that the state governments
with the people on their side would be
able to repel the danger
the highest number to which according to
the best computation a standing army can
be carried in any country does not
exceed 100th part of the whole number of
souls
or 125th part of the number able to bear
arms
this proportion would not yield in the
united states an army of more than 25 or
000 men to these would be opposed a
militia amounting to near half a million
of citizens
with arms in their hands officered by
men chosen from among themselves
fighting for their common liberties and
united and conducted by governments
possessing their affections and
confidence
it may well be doubted whether a militia
thus circumstanced could ever
be conquered by such a proportion of
regular troops
those who are best acquainted with the
last successful resistance of this
country against the british arms will be
most inclined to deny the possibility of
it
besides the advantage of being armed
which the americans possess over the
people of almost every other nation
the existence of subordinate governments
to which the people are attached and by
which the militia officers are appointed
forms a barrier against the enterprises
of ambition more insurmountable than any
which a simple government of any form
can admit of
notwithstanding the military
establishments in the several kingdoms
of europe
which are carried as far as the public
resources will bear
the governments are afraid to trust the
people with arms and it is not certain
that with this aid alone they would not
be able to shake off their yokes
but we're the people to possess the
additional advantages of local
governments chosen by themselves who
could collect the national will and
direct a national force
and of officers appointed out of the
militia by these governments and
attached to both of them and to the
militia
it may be affirmed with the greatest
assurance that the throne of every
tyranny in europe
would be speedily overturned in spite of
the legions which surround it
let us not insult the free and gallant
citizens of america with the suspicion
that they would be less able to defend
the rights of which they would be in
actual possession
than the debased subjects of arbitrary
power would be to rescue theirs from the
hands of their oppressors
let us rather no longer insult them with
the supposition that they can ever
reduce themselves to the necessity of
making the experiment
by a blind and tamed submission to the
long train of insidious measures which
must proceed and produce it
the argument under the present head may
be put into a very concise form which
appears altogether conclusive
either the mode in which the federal
government is to be constructed will
render it sufficiently dependent on the
people
or it will not on the first supposition
it will be restrained by that dependence
from
forming schemes obnoxious to their
constituents on the other supposition
it will not possess the confidence of
the people and its schemes of usurpation
will be easily defeated by the state
governments
who will be supported by the people on
summing up the considerations stated in
this and the last paper
they seem to amount to the most
convincing evidence that the powers
proposed to be lodged in the federal
government
are as little formidable to those
reserved to the individual states
as they are indispensably necessary to
accomplish the purposes of the union
and that all those alarms which have
been sounded of a meditated and
consequential annihilation of the state
governments must
on the most favorable interpretation be
ascribed to the chimerical fears of the
authors of them
publius